1.	VISUAL BASIC 

1.1	INTRODUCTION

1.2	AUTHOR(S) 
	
Alan Cooper is an American software designer and programmer. He is recognized as "Father of Visual Basic". He is a pioneer of the modern computing era. He created the programming language Visual Basic and wrote industry-standard books on design practice like “About Face.” 

1.3	HISTORY OF THE LANGUAGE
	     	
The first version of VB 1.0 of Visual basic released in 1991. The creation of the user interface with drag and drop design inspired a beta generator developed by Alan Cooper on Cooper's company Tripod.
Microsoft signed a contract with Cooper and its partners to create a Tripod on a programmable system for Windows 3.0. This system was developed under the code name Ruby, which has no relation to the Ruby Programming Language.
Tripod did not have any programming language at all. Microsoft then decided to use Ruby in combination with basic language to develop visual basic.
Ruby's interface contributed to the "visual" component of the Visual Basic programming language. This was later combined with the Embedded BASIC engine that was developed for Microsoft's abandoned "Omega" database system.
Version 5.0, in February 1997, Microsoft released a visual basic compatible only with 32-bit versions of Microsoft Windows. Programmers who prefer to write programs in 16-bit could do this in versions between 4.0 and 5.0. Besides, programs written in Visual Basic 5.0 can be easily converted to Version 4.0 programs. Version 5.0 also can compile with Windows native execution code and introduce custom user controls.
Visual Basic 6.0 was introduced in the middle of 1998. This version also came with several enhancements, including its stunning ability to build web-based applications. Extended support for Visual Basic 6.0 was stopped in March 2008. However, the basic parts of the Visual Basic 6 development environment work on all 32-bit Microsoft Windows, including Windows 8.1.
After the cessation of mainstream and extended support for Visual Basic 6.0 caused many programs to show concern. Community members then created users lobby and a petition was signed by them. The main purpose of this petition was to ensure the survival of the product. However, the petition did not achieve its purpose effectively.

	1.3.1 WHICH LANGUAGES  INFLUENCED IT

Visual basic was influenced by QuickBasic, Basic, Algol and Fortran languages. Figure 1 shows which languages are affected by each other.

		
1.4	WHY WAS IT INVENTED
	
	In 1988, Alan Cooper created a visual programming language which code called a "Ruby" that allowed Windows users to create shells like "Finder".  It was called "a shell construction set". After Ruby was shown to Bill Gates, Microsoft bought it. Microsoft initially decided not to release the product as a shell for users. However, transform it into a professional development tool for the QuickBASIC programming language named Visual Basic. It is widely used for business application development for Windows computers.
	The dynamically installable control facility, known as Cooper's "VBX" interface, was a well-known component of "Ruby". This innovation allowed any 3rd party developer to write a widget as a DLL, put it in the Visual Basic directory, and Visual Basic to find, communicate, and offer it to the user as a seamless part of the program.

1.5	WHEN/WHY SHALL WE USE IT

Visual Basic is considered one of the most powerful programming languages as Microsoft's first visual development tool. Compared to other computer programming languages like C, C ++, it is easy to learn and understand. 
Visual Basic is a widely understood high-level programming language written using simple English-like words and syntax. It is an interpreted language, it can be run immediately after the code is written.
Having an interpreter makes it easier to use, as there is no need for the computer to compile the code, possibly finding errors to fix, before the compiled version can be run. 
The Visual Basic programming language allows programmers to create software interface and codes in an easy-to-use graphical environment.
It allows programmers to quickly develop window-based applications. It also allows programmers to use ActiveX controls and various objects. It helps in accessing databases using ADO.
Although it is mostly used to develop applications, it is also suitable for game development.
Compared to other languages, Visual basic may be slower than other languages. However, it is flexible and it is stated that things that are difficult in other languages are relatively easy and comfortable in a visual basic programming language.
Visual Basic is one of the most popular programming languages. It has many accessible resources. 
Another thing that stands out in visual basic programming is that the VB structure is designed to allow programmers to create executable code - Exe files.
It enables programmers to develop programs that can be used as a front end in databases. Also, with the help of visual basic tools, someone can change abstract ideas into programs or all software and allow them to modify Programs appropriately.
Visual Basic is a language with a powerful front-end tool that can achieve simple and complex business needs effectively and efficiently.

1.6	HOW TO SETUP
1.6.1	WINDOWS
1.6.2	LINUX
1.6.3	MAC OS
1.7	EXAMPLE CODES 

SPECIFIC THINGS
        1.8.1 CHARACTERISTIC FEATURES OF THE LANGUAGE
Visual Basic is based on characteristics of BASIC. 
As in the previous BASIC, there is no line number, the code is grouped into subroutines or methods. → Sub ... End Sub.
Code Expressions do not contain a terminating character other than a line break (carriage return/line feed). Versions since at least VB 3.0 have allowed expressions to be indirectly multi-line by combining strings, or explicitly multi-line using the underscore character (_) at the end of the lines.
Code comments are made with a single apostrophe (') character. →  'This is a comment
Loop statement blocks begin and end with keywords → Do ... Loop, While ... End While, For ... Next.
Multiple variables cannot be assigned. A = B = C does not mean that all values are equal.
The Boolean data type is stored as a two's complement signed integer. The numerical value of the Boolean constant True is −1.  In this structure, −1 evaluates all-1s as binary (Boolean value of True) and 0 all-0s (Boolean value of False).
Logical and bitwise operators are unified. This is different from some C-derivative languages, for example, Perl with separate logical and bitwise operators. This is one of BASIC's traditional features. 
Variable array base. Arrays are declared by specifying the upper and lower boundaries similar to Pascal and Fortran. It is also possible to use the Option Base statement to set the default lower bound. Using the Option Base statement can cause confusion when reading Visual Basic code and is best avoided by always explicitly specifying the lower boundary of the array. This lower limit is not limited to 0 or 1 because it can also be set via notification. In this way, both the lower and upper bounds can be programmed. In languages limited to subscript, the lower bound of the array is not variable. 
Relatively strong integration with the Windows operating system and Component Object Model.
The banker's rounding is rounded as the default behavior when converting real numbers to integers with the Round function. →  ? Round (2,5, 0) 2,? The round gives (3.5, 0) 4.
Integers are automatically raised to the reals in expressions containing the normal division operator (/), so dividing one integer with another produces an intuitively accurate result. VB provides a specific integer division operator (\) that is truncated.
By default, if a variable is not declared or no type of declaration character is specified, the variable is of the Variant type. However, this can be replaced with Deftype statements such as DefInt, DefBool, DefVar, DefObj, DefStr. There are 12 Deftype statements in total offered by Visual Basic 6.0. The default type may be overridden for a specific declaration by using a special suffix character on the variable name (# for Double, ! for Single, & for Long, % for Integer, $ for String, and @ for Currency)















REFERENCES
1.	https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Basic
2.	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Cooper
3.	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Basic
4.	https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/visual-basic-importance-programming-language-fareed/
